## Final Essay
Julia Zeh

1. Yes, I definitely plan to use GitHub for future projects. It's really useful to have something like GitHub storing my code because of the ability to revert back to any point in time on the code. Additionally, using GitHub to download other people's code has been really useful. Next time I need to share my progress on a code with other people, GitHub will definitely be the easiest way for me to post it, communicate with them, and keep my project updated online. I really enjoy using GitHub and it is very clear and helpful when a mistake is made or something is deleted that shouldn't be (which happened to me a few times with this project).

2. My project did not accomplish the goals that I had set out in my proposal. My proposal was definitely overly ambitious, and I wish I had created something easier for myself. The hardest part of this project was getting started with the code I wanted to use. I ended up spending weeks just trying to get the pyAudioAnalysis library to download because the library documentation was not very thorough and was not easily installable. I then spent a lot of time working through my tutorial notebook, only to come across further problems. I should have realized from the beginning that this proposal was too ambitious and/or I should have switched libraries I was using, but instead spent too much time trying and failing with pyAudioAnalysis. The way I overcame this was by creating a new library that could function with visualizing characteristics of sounds. Using this simple project goal, I was able to come up with a class object which can be used to visualize a wave file in a variety of forms, and this allowed me to complete the task of providing an installable package, a notebook to learn the package, and sample data. It was too difficult in the given time for me to solve the issue with pyAudioAnalysis and to work out the mechanics of Mahcine Learning for use with my data in Python, but this is something I hope to work more on in the future. I think a more collaborative process would have been helpful for me because I spent too much time trying to fix errors when I should have moved on or started something new, and a lot of the issues I had could have been fixed with a fresh set of eyes looking at the problem.

3. I think that I have learned the skills necessary to perform some basic data analysis in Python, and I have the tools now so that I can learn how to do more complex analysis on my own. I think I can write my own program or pipeline, but would still need a great deal of help from someone who knew a lot about the data analysis I was working on or from documentation and other resources online. I think I need to continue to review class objects and packages. Further skills I could learn might involve looking specifically at acoustic analysis for my own future studies and figuring out how signal to noise ratios work and how I can use that as a filter for my data (given an array based on a spectrogram) in order to detect sounds based on their SNR. For this I would look to acoustics papers and ask my research advisors. I also think I could spend more time looking at statistical analysis tools in Python to remind me of what is available and how I can use it with my own data. For this I would read up on the documentation we looked at in class and try and expand from there.

